1

The paper presents an original and potentially very beneficial
contribution to the research domain of automatic harmonic analysis.
The authors suggest a computational framework together with
established performance measures that greatly facilitate the
comparison of algorithms for harmonic analysis. By making the source
code of this framework available the authors effectively promote the
scientific exchange and evaluation of different approaches to the
problem. Further, results of several experimental implementations
based on machine learning methods are presented and put into the
context of well-known algorithms from the literature although some
more recent examples are missing (e.g., [1] and [2]). It is nice to
see also the results of an experiment on the impact of training set
size reported here. [1] Raphael and Stoddard, Functional Harmonic
Analysis Using Probabilistic Models, Computer Music Journal,
28(3):45-52, 2004. [2] Burgoyne and Saul, Learning Harmonic
Relationships in Digital Audio with Dirichlet-based Hidden Markov
Models, Proceedings of ISMIR, London, UK, 2005.

2 	

It is indeed useful to bring the different approaches to automatic
harmonic analysis under one roof and compare them with one another. It
would be good to mention some perspectives of the automatic chord
labeling for the working theorist. How can the automatisation help to
criticize the present state of harmonic theory? Among the four
problems you say: "The last problem is finding the main key and the
modulations of the piece and assigning a tonal function to each
chord." Although you do not report in detail on that part of the story
it is worth to mention related work. Finally I really wouldn't blindly
rely on your expert annotation. Especially the "tricky example"
contains a wrong analysis. The suspended a over the G-chord is by no
means an obstacle to accept that chord as a harmony.

3 	

This paper presents the first systematic comparitive evaluation of
harmonic-analysis algorithms. One discovers half way through the paper
that this research is in its early days, but it nevertheless presents
results worth hearing at this stage. Hopefully further results can be
presented in a revision of the paper for the proceedings and at the
conference itself. The paper would be strengthened technically if the
authors could demonstrate that their implementations of others'
analysis algorithms were correct, e.g., by showing that their
implementations produce the same results as the original. Section 3 on
the base-96 representation of pitch is interesting but not relevant
for this paper, since the system is not used in this software, and
should be omitted. If this section is retained (e.g., because the
promised development of the software to use this pitch representation
has been completed) one detail requires adding to strengthen the
argument. Hewlett's base-40 system has a flaw because the same number
can represent more than one interval. (The number 6 here (top of page
3) is incorrect--it should be 4.) The same is true of the base-96
system, though the flaw involves a much higher number of accidentals.
The difference between the systems is therefore in how likely the flaw
is to be problematic, and so some discussion of this is required. Are
there any real musical situations in which the flaw in the base-40
system will actually matter? The English is generally good, but a
couple of small matters require attention. 'Difficulting' (p.2) is not
an English word. The text here should say 'making local decisions more
difficult'. The proper English musical terms on p.5 (section 5.7) are
'suspension' (for 'retardation') and 'passing note' (for 'passage').
